---
layout: post
title: "u/Yvan888在2018-10-15~2018-10-21的言论"
date: 2018-10-21
author: Yvan888
tags: [Reddit]
permalink: Yvan888-2018-10-21
from: https://old.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/9q2p9f/til_because_of_the_2008_chinese_milk_scandal/
comments: true
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scrapped).
{:toc}

### 806: [TIL because of the 2008 Chinese milk scandal causing mistrust in local suppliers, it is estimated that up to 80% to 90% of infant formula purchased in Australia is destined for China.](https://old.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/9q2p9f/til_because_of_the_2008_chinese_milk_scandal/), submitted on 2018-10-21 19:02:22+08:00.

----- __806.1__ -----2019-03-05 14:13:46+08:00:

wow what a wonderful information. Thanks for sharing. As a Chinese, I really appreciate it. I think you have a deep insight in Chinese society, but I may hold slight different opinions in some points

>	First thing you need to know about is something called ”chabuduo“ culture. Chabuduo means something like ”good enough“ or ”close enough“. This thinking is ubiquitous in all industries in China. ”This elevator needs 4 bolts placed at the corners to keep it from plummeting? Well, we‘ve got 3 and it looks fine. Good enough.“

Every one hates chabuduo, but I think it's really related to the stage of development. I could be wrong but you may find chabuduo in other developing countries such as India and Russia.

>	It‘s (Chinese medicine) based on medieval principles and ideas that belong more in a religious realm than anything scientific.

Chinese medicine is kinda empirical science, with a large part, but not all, of suprstition. Some of them actually work and can give ideas to modern midicine industry such as [this](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2016/09/160908084319.htm). 

>	So anyway, all of this stuff and some more comes together to create really, really crappy products and encourage dangerous shortcuts. 

I hate the shitty shanzhai products, and the first world hate them too, but what about the third world, or even the lower class in the first world? China becomes the manufacturing powerhouse just because it can. It can produce not only the crappy and cheap products but also the high quality products such as apple devices. Also, every country develops from the copycat to innovator, Germany did it two century ago, Japan did it one century ago, and China is doing it. For example, you can see ~~5G dominator Huawei (no it's a spy BAD)~~ drone dominator DJI, and in this process they will be forced to improve the quality control and customer service.

>	Beijing is the ultimate bastion of authoritarianism and if they decide for some silly reason that they don’t like something then they block it. They seem to be operating on the assumption that eventually the world will consider Beijing the world‘s default capital and Mandarin the lingua franca. Perhaps, some day far in the future but definitely not any time soon. Beijing wants to promote business and investment yet seems to do everything it can do keep business and investment from being able to access what it needs to get business done. So people have to find ways around that sort of thing to make money.

Ah, interesting but I'm not that sure what you are talking about? Any Story please?

Edit: typo

### 807: [Best 'reader mode' extension for Chrome](https://old.reddit.com/r/chrome/comments/9ox2q6/best_reader_mode_extension_for_chrome/), submitted on 2018-10-17 17:26:49+08:00.

----- __807.1__ -----2019-03-08 05:53:47+08:00:

OMG IT MAKES SENSE!

