---
layout: post
title: "u/Yvan888在2019-10-14~2019-10-20的言论"
date: 2019-10-16
author: Yvan888
tags: [ Reddit ]
categories: [ Reddit ]
permalink: Yvan888-2019-10-16
from: https://old.reddit.com/r/China_irl/comments/diqwsw/从地图看一看习仲勋的陵园有多大/
comments: true
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scrapped).
{:toc}

### 555: [从地图看一看，习仲勋的陵园有多大](https://old.reddit.com/r/China_irl/comments/diqwsw/从地图看一看习仲勋的陵园有多大/), submitted on 2019-10-16 23:30:31+08:00.

----- __555.1__ -----2019-10-17 10:05:40+08:00:

正因为亲爹（因为权力不够大）被人整得惨，才会更加对权力有变态的欲望吧

（当然，我没说习一定是这样，只是说这里的逻辑不矛盾

### 556: [Expats still in China, how is it going living in China and how do you feel it has changed in the last few years.](https://old.reddit.com/r/China/comments/djmxhg/expats_still_in_china_how_is_it_going_living_in/), submitted on 2019-10-18 20:40:25+08:00.

----- __556.1__ -----2019-10-19 10:06:15+08:00:

>	the propaganda that my students got fed even at a kindergarten level was a bit much

How’s that? Although I’m chinese teenager, I still feel a growing nationalism in 00s and 10s but am not sure what’s actually happened due to the lack of first hand information. The only thing I got to know is a famous nationalism cartoon/donghua.

### 557: [Countries with a border dispute with China](https://old.reddit.com/r/China/comments/djo1ib/countries_with_a_border_dispute_with_china/), submitted on 2019-10-18 22:09:54+08:00.

----- __557.1__ -----2019-10-19 07:49:40+08:00:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolshoy_Ussuriysky_Island

> In 2005, the Russian Duma and the Chinese National People's Congress approved the agreement. On July 21, 2008, an agreement was signed in Beijing by the Chinese and Russian Foreign Ministers, that finalized the border demarcation and formally ended negotiations.

Officially​, Russia and PRC have finalized the disrupt since 2005. But, of course, there are some mainlanders and residents in HK and TW criticize it (which doesn't matter).

----- __557.2__ -----2019-10-19 08:09:46+08:00:

>	China is an anachronism.

Finally, someone in this sub has a kinda similar opinion as me. 

When the west embraced nationalism, other places were vague about their identities (which is different from *modern* nationalism).

When the west embraced liberalism, other places are having a strong predilection for nationalism as a byproduct of modern ideology and the aftermath of western imperialism. 

However, if we think a bit further​: Who is the milestone of  *anachronism*? Who defines the scale of *time*? Or, perhaps, anyone is actually living in their own time and specific and unique stage of development? 

China who has occupied Tibet is an anachronism. India who is nibbling Kashmir is an anachronism. Turkey who is invading Syria Kurds is an anachronism... And then? 

When more than half of mankind population living in this ideology, it’s not anachronism overall and just anachronism to the west. The west is more advanced in the March, but, it doesn’t mean others are anachronisms. Though I agree that this kind of cliche nationalism should be and must be abandoned one day, everybody is walking on his own path. No exception.

----- __557.3__ -----2019-10-19 23:08:15+08:00:

>	Nationalists even claim Mongolia and most of the Russian Far East, including all of its cities over 100,000 population.

That’s correct but doesn’t matter. Every country with long history would have a bunch of so-called disrupt territories but the era of territory division is ending. When people say xxx took us xxx, it’s just all talk with no action. I’m not saying all the borders will remain peaceful forever, but the idea of retaking the whole Far East must be insane.

Taiwan? Some of the KMT-ers keep talking it just to impair the legitimacy of CCP and nothing more than that.

### 558: [Producer and activist Andrew Duncan bought 300 tickets to tonight's Nets vs Raptors game and is hosting hundreds of Chinese pro-Democracy activists to protest the NBA. They're all wearing "Stand With Hong Kong" t-shirts](https://old.reddit.com/r/China/comments/djy8fn/producer_and_activist_andrew_duncan_bought_300/), submitted on 2019-10-19 11:13:22+08:00.

----- __558.1__ -----2019-10-19 23:44:20+08:00:

To be fair, during the pre-Xi era, some CCP officials can play this game well, that is, they are hardline yet artful. Things are changed dramatically after Xi got the power, and that’s how other officials complained Xi, A Stubborn Paranoid.

### 559: [Stutterers, what job do you have?](https://old.reddit.com/r/Stutter/comments/dk0zdt/stutterers_what_job_do_you_have/), submitted on 2019-10-19 16:32:24+08:00.

----- __559.1__ -----2019-10-30 03:38:30+08:00:

Just curious, how severe is your stutter?

I was a business student and the stutter has already given me huge obstacles on group discussions and presentations.

I cannot image how it comes a stutter being a lawyer. Bravo 👍

----- __559.2__ -----2019-10-30 03:45:22+08:00:

I’m a stutter and one of my majors is CS.

I figure out it’s always less stutter for me to discuss STEM topics comparing to casual or stressful topics. I guess it’s because the STEM topics are more logical and I can just walk along the blueprint. In other scenarios  such as sales and pressure interviews, I always perform bad.

----- __559.3__ -----2019-10-30 05:59:56+08:00:

Your story is inspiring and hope you the best.

### 560: [Is it true？😂😂](https://old.reddit.com/r/ChineseLanguage/comments/dk2p1s/is_it_true/), submitted on 2019-10-19 19:46:38+08:00.

----- __560.1__ -----2019-10-20 00:09:34+08:00:

That’s why in the western stock market, increasing is green and decreasing is red, which is exactly opposite in China

### 561: [美国退出后，由中国、俄罗斯等人权纪录糟糕的国家把持的联合国人权理事会将马杜罗的委内瑞拉政府选进人权理事会，其恶劣的人权纪录遭50多个国际组织批评。](https://old.reddit.com/r/saraba1st/comments/dk2ra2/美国退出后由中国俄罗斯等人权纪录糟糕的国家把持的联合国人权理事会将马杜罗的委内瑞拉政府选进人权理事会/), submitted on 2019-10-19 19:53:09+08:00.

----- __561.1__ -----2019-10-20 09:58:33+08:00:

老实讲 以色列也应该挨批 我真的不知道为什么美国人在跟我讨论新疆问题是会用whataboutism 我就不说以前两百年的殖民黑历史了 就现在还在不断进行的以色列对巴勒斯坦土地的侵蚀  美国就毫无高地可站

### 562: [Meanwhile at the 2019 Asian Baseball Championship](https://old.reddit.com/r/China/comments/dk3f2d/meanwhile_at_the_2019_asian_baseball_championship/), submitted on 2019-10-19 20:57:00+08:00.

----- __562.1__ -----2019-10-20 00:06:22+08:00:

Lol same

### 563: [Mainlander studying abroad here. I resent the Commies but I can support neither the CCP nor Hong Kong.](https://old.reddit.com/r/China/comments/dk5v2r/mainlander_studying_abroad_here_i_resent_the/), submitted on 2019-10-20 00:17:09+08:00.

----- __563.1__ -----2019-10-20 10:25:53+08:00:

This is an extremely ideal argument. That is, your argument is rational if this world is extremely perfect but the real world doesn’t work like that.

In the case of Hong Kong and Taiwan, their division is partly or wholly as a byproduct of foreign imperialism and invasion. What do you feel if an invader took your family children by force and foster them or even indoctrinate them and several years come back and say *hey your children are not yours now*? 

If they are united again for hundreds of years, and at that time there’s new identity or ideology that they want to embrace. Then I would be happy to let them be.

BTW there is a conspiracy called *constructional contradiction between liberal country and national country*. If this argument is enacted now in everywhere, then the liberal country such as America and Canada would be benefit continually and national country such as China, India or even part of Europe would be losing continually because it keeps promoting the separatism in the national country due to the inherent historical disrupt within them unlike the new liberal country without historical burden.

One more thing, if they don’t recognize mainland Chinese, then they can either immigrant or seek a high degree of autonomy, but seeking independence? Good luck with them. Go to ask how the independence leaders of Catalonia are now.

----- __563.2__ -----2019-10-20 12:10:58+08:00:

Your argument is extremely ideal. Really.

1. Roughly speaking, the majority of China's territory is from Qing's map.

2. HK was taken by war, then if any others want to take out, please by war too. 

3. Liberalism may be a final destination of mankind, but we may be at odds with its timing. Current liberalism is just a boxing game without any weight classes. Cultural liberalism when you're weak is just an open cultural colony by others. Economical liberalism when you're weak is just an open economical color by others. So are​ territory and others. 

> BTW there is a conspiracy called constructional contradiction between liberal country and national country. If this argument is enacted now in everywhere, then the liberal country such as America and Canada would benefit continually and national country such as China, India or even part of Europe would be losing continually because it keeps promoting the separatism in the national country due to the inherent historical disrupt within them unlike the new liberal country without historical burden.

If you have learned how the resources, including IP, capitals, brains, are flowing in this world, you may have a deeper understanding of what I'm talking about.

----- __563.3__ -----2019-10-28 08:22:18+08:00:

Thanks for sharing your opinions. They truly make my eyes open and know more about my country.

Here is a related question:

What do you think of the mandatory Halal restaurants in lots of Chinese colleges all over China? 

tbh it was an evidence that I thought China do better in diversity, or, at least, to deny the racism critism on China. Because given the close proportion of Muslim population between China ([up to 1.8%](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islam_in_China)) and the US ([1.1%](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islam_in_the_United_States)), I haven't seen a high frequency of Halal restaurants both in-campus and out-of-campus. 

I may be wrong because I haven't explored the US too much.

----- __563.4__ -----2019-10-29 06:24:17+08:00:

Thanks for this long explanation. I don't, though I did, use the prevalence of halal restaurant to defend the racism activity in China. 

The reason I think it's close is that the distribution of Muslims in China is far uneven than in the US. As you can figure out from the [map](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/e5/Islam_in_China%2C_with_0.2_%28Yang_Zongde_2010%29.png), most of the Chinese Muslim is located in the northwestern corner, but in my Chinese colleges, which are located in the opposite southeastern corner, there are still some mandatory in-campus halal restaurants. This is just a supplement, and I'm not against your opinions.

---

I'm a person who supports religion freedom but I admit that I'm a bit Islamophobia now. Don't get me wrong, I have good Muslim friends and we get along with others very well. But I haven't been to the Muslim-majority places so I lack first-hand information.

There is a rising Islamophobia in China, which resonates with the increasing global Islamophobia including in the west ([eg1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uZCpZBmPR3A&t=50s) [eg2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hZFmnz4ROEo&t=51s)) and also India. It's definitely wrong yet understandable to some extent, given the high frequency of extreme Islamic terrorism and a plausible closed system. 

Every region that had once been Islamizated would never go back, the only exception AFAIK is Spain. I'm not saying that Muslim must be “assimilated” (I’m not sure whether it’s an accurate English term here but hope that you don’t misunderstand it as one-sided sinicization or Han chauvinism) with other groups mutually in the short term, but history seems to show us that Muslims have a relatively more closed system than other religions or ideologies do and thus harder to co-exist with other systems. Someone argues that the Muslim system is a closed eco-system encapsulating life conventions, social relationships, education, law, and even army and government (sorry I cannot figure out that video link now). In other words, it's a de facto country under the mark of religion. 

I understand that it's always a long way for different background people to learn how to co-exist with each other. Buddism, for example, was regarded as a hostile invader to China's Confucianism system but ended up being a coherent part of Chinese culture, and vice versa. But I still hesitate to believe that Islam will end up the same path. 

What's your opinion of co-existence with Islam and the arguable closed Islamic system, at least in China? So that I can persuade myself and my friends to be more open-minded to Muslims. Btw I won't regard the Muslim in the US, which is highly diverse and extremely secularized,​ as a counterpart in China.

Edit: I forgot to mention, this comment has nothing to do with xinjiang’s camp. I’m asking a more comprehensive question.

