---
author: Spinkcat
categories:
- Reddit
date: 2022-01-13
from: https://old.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/s07h3k/what_do_you_think_the_steam_deck_will_mean_for/
layout: post
tags:
- Reddit
title: Spinkcat在2022-01-10~2022-01-16的言论
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scrapped).
{:toc}

### 1493: [What do you think the Steam Deck will mean for Linux Gaming in the long term?](https://old.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/s07h3k/what_do_you_think_the_steam_deck_will_mean_for/), submitted on 2022-01-10 09:33:42+08:00.

----- __1493.1__ -----2022-01-10 15:18:00+08:00:

Dedicated gaming  system in all X86 hardware，Windows 11 is a disaster .Microsoft can't balance games and all platforms,we need a universal open source system,so we should think about SteamDeck will mean for SteamOS,and What SteamOS means to all gamers.

Custom dedicated gaming system  performance of running games is better, without the bloat of win，right now Proton performance gap is 15-25%,some games only 2-5%,if Valve keep continues to invest  Linux and SteamOS, one day the performance will surpass Windows，smaller size, better power consumption, better performance mining.

### 1494: [Why it makes sense Valve uses Linux](https://old.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/s1nmzd/why_it_makes_sense_valve_uses_linux/), submitted on 2022-01-12 05:08:03+08:00.

----- __1494.1__ -----2022-01-12 07:52:52+08:00:

I think Valve want make a dedicated gaming system in all X86 hardware,Microsoft won't develop dedicated windows for games,they want PC ,they want android and mobile,its why Windows 11 is a disaster.

The steam deck is not the point, the point is SteamOS and its future，maybe Microsoft has an agreement with Valve, and Valve helps Microsoft take on a dedicated gaming system that it doesn't have the energy to take charge of, forming a tech alliance.

I'm not a developer, but from what I understand, LINUX seems to have a lot of performance potential on custom systems, it's just that it's been lacking a lot of investment from larger companies because it's not profitable to do that.

If the game performance of LIUNX exceeds the window one day, not only 5-10%, but 20-30%, maybe more, you don't need to do extra things to get the best performance. 

Both players and developers will receive passive optimizations, and even Valve will provide a developer-specific operating environment like Steamworks. 

Allowing for cross-platform use, such as VR, handheld and PC, and I think consoles as well, multiple evidence that they are also developing consoles that are truly their own.

Based on the openness of the valve, when you provide excellent service and openness at the same time, it will automatically be compatible with most players, instead of shutting people out because of exclusive and closed ecology.

This value is reflected in their hardware and software products, which have been prominent in the recent steam deck.

Although both SteamOS and Steam themselves are threatening Microsoft and the gaming department, it is definitely not accidental that Microsoft and Phil Spencer still maintain a friendly relationship with Valve. Phil Spencer also advocates an open policy, which coincides with Valve's values.

I'm not a developer, but from what I understand, Linux seems to have a lot of performance potential on custom systems, it's just that it's been lacking a lot of investment from larger companies because it's not profitable to do that.

I suspect  Proton is a transitional project, a temporary solution until a mature solution is found to fully develop Linux games, because most players will not take the initiative to use Linux, and there is still a 15-25% loss in performance, so the valve passes Launch hardware with market demand to promote the share of Linux. When people are used to SteamOS, they will have user stickiness to the hardware and software, and will gradually allow users' usage habits to migrate from Windows to Linux.

In the end, Valve will gain an unshakable market niche, which will be compatible with the needs of most people due to its openness and cross-platform ease of use, and provide better services from the source, not just functions in the store To attract players to avoid being robbed of users by EPIC's exclusivity policy, which is why they are not interested in competing with EPIC, because it is a very old saturated market, and Valve is trying to open up a whole new field.

Most of the hardware is a channel to attract players to Linux at the beginning. Players use Linux because the hardware has advantages that are hard to refuse, but slowly they also find the characteristics of Linux (and its shortcomings), when SteamOS can get through more In the field of Valve hardware, players will realize that a stable and efficient SteamOS is far better than an unstable operating environment, because professional systems across hardware platforms are very important.

Then SteamOS feeds back the hardware market, making players realize the efficiency and convenience of the combination of the two. I remember Valve once said that VR has a very good performance on Linux, so if they persist and succeed, Linux will open up multiple The hardware market runs through several Valve hardware products. In addition to handhelds, there are also next-generation VR, the rumored Valve console, and the BCI hardware that Valve will launch sooner or later.

If you want to convince players to use Linux, you must prove to the players that Linux is good, not just good for Valve. Gabe doesn't care if the quarterly financial report is slightly better. He needs convincing evidence to attract players to the Linux market. Hardware is the best choice.

You're going to buy a steam deck because of the demand for handhelds, you're going to buy Deckard because of the demand for next-gen VR, and I don't know if their console will be released, but if Valve launches a console, there will be Decisive difference, to prove you're not buying another Steambox or a PS5, I mean there must be something in it that appeals to you, as BCI hardware appeals to me, although Valve hasn't had any word on that at all, but if it launches I would buy one right away without a second thought.

### 1495: [日本《朝日新闻》：习近平希望用 「共同富裕」来作为第三任期的执政基础](https://old.reddit.com/r/China_irl/comments/s2vx9g/日本朝日新闻习近平希望用_共同富裕来作为第三任期的执政基础/), submitted on 2022-01-13 17:55:58+08:00.

----- __1495.1__ -----2022-01-14 07:37:13+08:00:

大吃饱时，一天一只鸡，鸡蛋吃到伤一辈子，闻到味就恶心。

