---
author: EnclavedMicrostate
categories:
- Reddit
date: 2022-08-17
from: https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/wohtte/why_isnt_the_taiping_rebellion_more_well_known/
layout: post
tags:
- Reddit
title: EnclavedMicrostate在2022-08-15~2022-08-21的言论
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scrapped).
{:toc}

### 710: [Why isn't the Taiping Rebellion more well known?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/wohtte/why_isnt_the_taiping_rebellion_more_well_known/), submitted on 2022-08-15 05:53:50+08:00.

----- __710.1__ -----2022-08-15 13:59:08+08:00:

It is absolutely worth stressing that the importance of an event is never simply proportionate to the raw number of human lives lost in it. A wonderfully succinct articulation of this point can be found in [this piece](https://eidolon.pub/when-numbers-dont-count-56a2b3c3d07) by Monica Green on the Plague of Justinian:

> Yet it should be stressed that the question “how many died?” is not the only, nor the most important, question to ask about the plague. From the perspective of the history of medicine, there is no threshold, no magic number of deaths that will automatically determine “significance.” The 1918–19 Flu Pandemic killed “only” an estimated 2% of the world’s population; the HIV pandemic (whose spiraling numbers only started to decline in the early 2000s) killed even less. Yet because many of the dead from both pandemics were young, previously healthy adults, the economic and cultural impact was profound. Plague need not have had equal effects on all parts of western Eurasia and North Africa to have been profoundly influential as an infectious disease in late antiquity.

The piece is well worth reading as a whole, but the above quotation encapsulates my point: causing a lot of deaths does not make an event *more* important, but not causing a lot of deaths does not make it *less* important, either. The effects of the Taiping War need to be assessed by metrics beyond simply the scale of demographic loss.

I'm going to assume your perspective is American or otherwise Anglophone here. In which case the first and simplest reason the Taiping War isn't better known is that it happened in China, and not in an Anglophone country. If we were to flip this around: the American Civil War does not feature heavily in Chinese popular consciousness, and why should it? Nor does either conflict, I would think, have particular resonance in European countries. You probably have not heard of (or at least, not much of) the French Wars of Religion, or the Imjin War, or the Mughal-Maratha conflicts, because you almost certainly do not live somewhere where one or more of these conflicts form part of an accepted narrative of national history. Now, this does get into an important point of nuance: history as both a field of study and a cultural phenomenon is, in its current form, still shaped heavily by nationalism, and particularly in the popular sphere there continues to be a strong emphasis on specifically *national* history, in which history exists to reinforce the idea of the nation. A different country's civil war is unlikely to feature particularly strongly in such a narrative, with the odd exception such as, funnily enough, the US, where some level of cultural memory of the English Civil War persisted into the nineteenth century – though that ought to be somewhat counterbalanced by considering the US as a British successor state. In this case the problem is not simply that the Taiping War took place in China, but also that the way history is taught and discussed de-emphasises histories outside the national narrative of any given context.

That is not to say that the Taiping War was an event of purely regional significance. Interest in the diplomatic history of the Taiping goes back to at least the 1960s, and probably the best narrative history of the Taiping out there, Stephen Platt's *Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom*, firmly situates the Taiping conflict in a global context and emphasises its broader impacts beyond the Yangtze valley. But as noted, lay discourse tends not to treat history in transnational terms, particularly in the context of relatively modern history, which the Taiping War absolutely qualifies as.

Now, we can frame the Taiping conflict in international or imperial terms: this was a war that had a substantial effect on the British and French empires, to a lesser but still notable extent the Russian empire, and even influenced the course of the American Civil War. But because the Taiping War's influence was indirect, it still rarely features. And that is because to most people these are the histories of Britain, France, Russia, and the USA respectively. That is to say that insofar as there is a conception of imperial or international history in wider discourse, it is as an extension of national history. There was, it must be granted, some limited involvement of various foreign volunteers and observers, and for some that has meant a hazy awareness, typically through the figures of Frederick Townsend Ward (American) and Charles George Gordon (British); by extension the Taiping have made the odd appearance in some popular media, although from what I know the only particularly enduring example is perhaps George MacDonald Fraser's *Flashman and the Dragon*. But you will note that that is because of the direct involvement of those countries' nationals, such that the Taiping feature as an extension of American and/or British national histories.

It also doesn't help that the relatively low-level involvement of imperial powers in the Taiping War is easily overshadowed by the far more direct imperial hand in the Opium War and Arrow War, which are much easier to present as being significant to a Western – particularly British, French, or to a lesser extent American – audience. Direct imposition of terms upon the Qing government (which, in the end, won the Taiping War) at the point of a gun is something that is very concrete and easy to point to as a thing that people you [are expected to] identify with as having some common identity did. Policies of faux neutrality, low-level anti-smuggling operations, and the odd small-scale military intervention, which ultimately contributed to the Qing side winning a civil war, are a lot harder to integrate into even the imperial side of a national history.

It ought also to be noted that the Taiping have ceased to feature particularly strongly in the Chinese national narrative either, which is fundamentally related to the PRC's pivot away from socialism towards thinly-veiled eugenicist ultranationalism as its guiding ideology since the late 1980s. Whereas the Mao era saw a huge boom in Taiping scholarship and public interest, since the 1980s work has instead been done to assert the 'Chineseness' of the Qing and to rehabilitate former 'race-traitors' like Zeng Guofan who fought against the Taiping on behalf of the old conservative, traditionalist order. Whereas once, episodes of class struggle like the Taiping War and the Chinese Civil War were seen as the key moments of Chinese history, now China's history is one of resistance to foreign invaders. The Chinese Civil War has been de-emphasised in favour of the Second Sino-Japanese War, and so too has the Taiping War been brushed aside in favour of the Opium Wars.

The answer, then, is depressingly straightforward: most history is national history, and the Taiping do not fit into anyone's national history.

----- __710.2__ -----2022-08-16 12:04:26+08:00:

This verges heavily on modern politics, but a good couple of reads from a historiographical and cultural memory standpoint are the later chapters of Julia Lovell's *The Opium War* and also Rana Mitter's recent work *China's Good War*. While I will limit what I discuss here to the period up to about 2000, even within that timeframe it is clear from changes in historical discourse that the PRC's official line on history matched the change of its political direction. The rise of state capitalism under Deng Xiaoping meant the abandonment of all but the most nominal claims to practicing socialism in China (hence the joke that 'X with Chinese characteristics' means 'X in name only' – 'Socialism with Chinese characteristics' is how Deng referred to his state capitalist economics), and in its place nationalism – and to a great extent Han ethnic nationalism – took its place as the cohering ideological substance of the PRC. This played out in the historical sphere as described above: events like the Taiping War and Chinese Civil War that were understood as class conflicts within China were increasingly de-emphasised in favour of the Opium Wars and Second Sino-Japanese War, which saw China fighting against outside powers.

### 711: [What religion has the most historical evidence to back it up?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/wplqjo/what_religion_has_the_most_historical_evidence_to/), submitted on 2022-08-16 13:22:26+08:00.

----- __711.1__ -----2022-08-16 15:10:29+08:00:

This submission has been removed because it violates the [rule on poll-type questions](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/wiki/rules#wiki_no_.22poll.22-type_questions). These questions do not lend themselves to answers with a firm foundation in sources and research, and the resulting threads usually turn into monsters with enormous speculation and little focused discussion. Questions about the "most", the "worst", "unknown", or other value judgments usually lead to vague, subjective, and speculative answers.  For further information, please consult [this Roundtable discussion](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/f7fhjf/rules_roundtable_iii_no_example_seeking_or/).

For questions of this type, we ask that you redirect them to more appropriate subreddits, such as /r/history or /r/askhistory.

### 712: [If you're itching for Joseon-era stuff reminiscent of Kingdom...](https://old.reddit.com/r/NetflixKingdom/comments/wqnqyf/if_youre_itching_for_joseonera_stuff_reminiscent/), submitted on 2022-08-17 20:29:53+08:00.

----- __712.1__ -----2022-08-17 22:15:18+08:00:

This is the one where the Manchus speak Manchu, right?

----- __712.2__ -----2022-08-17 23:19:14+08:00:

They should call it Dor-gone.

### 713: [Can you recommend some between-the-cracks books?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/wqp5o0/can_you_recommend_some_betweenthecracks_books/), submitted on 2022-08-17 21:35:10+08:00.

----- __713.1__ -----2022-08-17 23:06:31+08:00:

I think it's worth making two points before I get into it. The first is this: Yuval Noah Harari's *Sapiens* is dubious scholarship at best. [This section of the FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/wiki/historians_views#wiki_historians.27_views_of_yuval_noah_harari.2C_sapiens_and_homo_deus) includes answers complicating or even outright disputing claims Harari makes, generally critiquing the quality of the book as a whole (see especially /u/CommodoreCoCo), or (in the case of the answer by /u/MySkinsRedditAcct) even pointing out issues with 'Big History' as a field (or genre, if you prefer). It is worth suggesting that *Sapiens* is fundamentally a work of evolutionary psychology and to some extent anthropology that claims the status of a work of history via its title and its author's background and qualifications, but not really written by someone whose formal training concentrates on the subject or approach. To be precise, Yuval Noah Harari's pre-*Sapiens* career was as a relatively decent historian of medieval military history, particularly of the Crusades, and while that is a very legitimate field it's also not the sort of thing that intuitively leads one towards expertise in *checks notes* the entirety of human history. The second is to say that more broadly, the 'Big History' genre is deeply problematic, and rarely (read: never) produces anything more than a rough synthesis of a huge number of subfields, rolled into a pile of meh. Anyone who claims that they are able to produce a single, coherent, and academically solid sweep of human history is either supremely overconfident or wilfully lying.

The reality is that history is a *vast* field with a *vast* quantity of material out there, and while that is also true of the natural sciences, I would argue that history, like many other humanities fields, differs in that theoretically any of it is accessible, with relatively little specific technical background needed to understand any given publication, as usually each historian needs to explain their own methodology in each individual work. At the same time, it is harder to tell what is credible and what isn't if you haven't already immersed yourself in a particular area for some time already, *because* the comprehensibility of any given work to a layperson is likely to be so high. This is where bibliographies come in handy as a way to sift through all of that material. One option is to scan through the bibliography section of a general introductory work on a particular area; another is to use a curated bibliography like the (paywalled) Oxford Bibliographies or the (free) [AskHistorians Books and Resources List](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/wiki/books), to name just two examples. Because the reality is that as a general rule, the more specialised the work, the more likely it is to not get things wrong, and the more focussed your interests on the whole, the more you are likely to get out of it, at least up to a point.

To stick to a natural sciences analogy, imagine asking a physicist 'what books would you recommend to me if I wanted to understand all of the important parts of physics?' What answer you would get would depend on what *kind* of physicist you ask. Is it a particle physicist or an astrophysicist? An experimental or a theoretical physicist? Or someone who works in a related subfield like materials science? Every one of them will have a different answer because to each of them, what they consider 'important' is entirely personal. And all of them are right. And so the same goes for history. What you ought to be looking for are things *you think you would find interesting in and of themselves*.

But you may contend that you want to understand *everything*. Well, you will need to lower your expectations. History isn't simply the recording of the past. The past does not exist. It did once, but insofar as it survives, it does through via a finite quantity of sources that capture only a minuscule fraction of the sum total of human experience in any given time and place. History as a field is about *interpreting* that material in a way that makes sense of it. What that means is that *everything* that has been written about the past that comments on it in some way is, in some way, history, everything from the latest scholarship to Gibbon to some Roman scribbling graffiti in Pompeii. It is *not physiologically possible* to read all of this in a human lifetime. You will need, ultimately, to pick and choose.

Maybe you choose to do so eclectically – that is, I would stress, *entirely valid* and something that this sub is actually a good resource for going about doing so. But maybe you want to specialise in a given region, or a given period, or a given topic, or some combination of the three. Interested in Roman military history? Go ahead! Pre-Columbian Mesoamerican religion? Knock yourself out! 19th century imperialism in Central Asia? Historians have got you covered! The long and the short of it is that you will never even approximate an understanding of any more than a fraction of human history, *and that's okay*. Focus on the things that tick.

### 714: [What is the largest human society that could be archaeologically hidden using current techniques?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/wqrzdc/what_is_the_largest_human_society_that_could_be/), submitted on 2022-08-17 23:32:45+08:00.

----- __714.1__ -----2022-08-18 01:33:56+08:00:

Apologies, but we have had to remove your submission. We ask that questions in this subreddit be limited to those asking about history, or for historical answers. This is not a judgement of your question, but to receive the answer you are looking for, it would be better suited to /r/AskAnthropology.

If you are interested in an historical answer, however, you are welcome to rework your question to fit the theme of this subreddit and resubmit it.

