---
author: Commodify
categories:
- Reddit
date: 2022-02-08
from: https://old.reddit.com/r/WarCollege/comments/smdwke/was_the_british_strategy_in_ww1_to_commit_a/
layout: post
tags:
- Reddit
title: Commodify在2022-02-07~2022-02-13的言论
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scrapped).
{:toc}

### 70: [Was the British Strategy in WW1 to commit a massive army to the Western Front a failure?](https://old.reddit.com/r/WarCollege/comments/smdwke/was_the_british_strategy_in_ww1_to_commit_a/), submitted on 2022-02-07 09:44:33+08:00.

----- __70.1__ -----2022-02-07 23:26:23+08:00:

No. Britain paid a relatively small price for a very important goal: the destruction of the Kriegsmarine and the unification of the other four naval powers behind the UK. They prolonged the life of the British Empire by at least a decade, and could have prolonged it by more if they had better navigated relations with their postwar allies.

In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Britain faced an impossible strategic dilemma that could have spelled its dismemberment at any time. For most of the 19th century, the only *real* naval powers were the UK and France. The Ottomans briefly commanded a huge fleet but it quickly fell into disrepair. The Russians rose as a threat during the reign of Nicholas I, but the Crimean War put a temporary hold on that. Germany, Japan, the US, and Italy had not yet risen as sea powers.

The rise of fleets outside the "big two" posed a serious risk for Britain. Britain knew that it could defeat the French navy any time (though it was still paranoid: in 1860 there was an unfounded French invasion scare). However, two or more rival navies *combined* could crush the British on the high seas. If that happened, the Empire would cease to exist overnight. Some Anglo majority colonies like Australia and Canada might have held out (though, just as likely, they'd make accommodations with enemies threatening to invade them), but India, South Africa, Egypt, Singapore, and possibly even Ireland would collapse into rebellion unless some foreign power took them first. Britain had an "empire on the cheap" and maintained most of its colonies with only a skeletal garrison that depended on the acceptance of the local power elite. The first sign of weakness could see the colonial apparatus evaporate overnight.

Compounding Britain's problem was the paramount importance of concentration of force in naval war. On land, you can deploy "holding forces" to hold one front while your main force makes a push elsewhere. Naval battles are decided in less than a day- meaning it's easy to mass forces and defeat the enemy in detail. The British Empire was spread out, and dividing its forces spelled suffering defeat *everywhere*.

The chief goal of British foreign policy in the early 20th century was to co-opt or neutralize as many competing fleets as possible. The establishment accepted the sacrifice this would entail, as they knew Britain had to fix a lot of burnt bridges. Splendid isolation... wasn't. No one wanted to be friends with Britain after a century of playing Europeans against each other and always under-delivering on promises of aid and second fronts. The diplomatic reputation of "Perfidious Albion" was in the gutter, and this was not helped by the Second Boer War. For a century, Britain had led the liberal bloc of European politics, campaigning against autocracy and representing what would later be known as Western democracy. That bloc turned sharply against it during its campaign against the Boers, whom Northwest Europeans saw as their ideological, cultural, and racial cousins. The liberals of Germany, France, Italy, Poland, the Low Countries, and Scandinavia - previously Britain's strongest continental supporters - supplied volunteers for the Boers in droves.

The extent of Britain's isolation in 1902 is revealed by the fact that its first full alliance was with *Japan*. Japan was not only a nonwhite power, but a military nonentity that year. Eventually that policy reaped enough dividends that [it became a campaign point](https://i.redd.it/txjm1rwwidg71.jpg), but at the time it was a risky gamble that showed just how desperate the British establishment was to free up resources and deter a coalition. The risk of that coalition was very real. Today, we often take the view that Franco-German enmity was inevitable, but great power alliances were always shifting. During the Jules Ferry ministry, France cooperated with Bismarck's Germany against British colonial interests. Nor did the relationship become irreconcilable under Kaiser Wilhelm: after the Sino-Japanese War, Germany, Russia, and France all *joined the same coalition* against Japan. That coalition was motivated by a joint Franco-German desire to win the affection of Russia, which at the time was still a bitter enemy to Britain. It was very possible that the next Anglo-Russian dispute over the Balkans or Central Asia would see the same configuration form against Britain.

Over the next decade, Britain fell on several strokes of good luck that reversed its strategic predicament. While Europe in 1902 seemed to be poised to form an anti-British coalition (at least diplomatically if not militarily), by 1912 it was *Germany* who was the target of coalition warfare. The first jackpot was the Anglo-French Entente, which was influenced by the transfer of fleets from Asia to Europe in the aftermath of the Anglo-Japanese alliance that secured Britain's "Eastern flank". Next was the Russo-Japanese War, where Japan proved itself as an ally and utterly vanquished the fleet of Britain's Russian nemesis. Without a fleet, Russia's ability and desire to antagonize Britain dropped significantly. This, and the good offices of France - Russia's ally - led to the Anglo-Russian Entente in 1907. Finally, while Italy remained a nominal German ally, it was a peninsula and highly vulnerable to British sea power: London therefore had good reason to believe it would be neutral in the next war.

Imagine you're a senior policymaker in London in 1914. You've spent ten years crossing an ocean of bad blood and have finally seen land: a world arrayed against Britain in 1902 is now mostly united against your main rival. What is your recommendation to the Prime Minister? Send in a huge land army and sacrifice possibly hundreds of thousands of British lives, or *once again* screw over your allies and watch Europe burn for your own pocketbook? No one who lived through the insecurity of the seven-fleet period would have made the second choice. Britain's "traditional strategy" be damned: that strategy nearly led to it being on the *receiving end* of the nightmare Germany was now facing. The establishment by 1914 understood that, to be safe in a multi-polar naval environment, Britain had to be a team player.

Many historians have argued that the British Empire's bankruptcy in WW2 and subsequent dismemberment can be traced back to its interventionist policy in 1902-1914, but that's an extremely backwards view. What undermined Britain in World War 2 was having to divide its naval resources across three oceans. Losing the Eastern colonies was inevitable since Britain had to hold the Mediterranean against Italy, combat the U-Boats, and stop a German crossing of the channel. The formation of this anti-British coalition was completely avoidable, and was *caused* by Britain's postwar aloofness. By 1921, British policymakers found the Japanese-American relationship too complex to navigate and decided to "simplify" their Pacific policy by siding with America on all questions. They also found Italy's Ethiopian policy distasteful, and similarly suspended cooperation with Mussolini: *Il Duce* had joined Britain and France in the anti-German Stresa Front before this "betrayal". Put simply, Britain's salvation in World War 1 was its skill in playing world politics. Its nightmare in World War 2 was its failure to do the same.

### 71: [The PLA and its logistics operations for Tonga aid](https://old.reddit.com/r/CredibleDefense/comments/sn1avz/the_pla_and_its_logistics_operations_for_tonga_aid/), submitted on 2022-02-08 05:20:43+08:00.

----- __71.1__ -----2022-02-09 23:07:41+08:00:

It doesn't. Here's a secret: there's no such thing as power projection as most people conceive of it. Any country in good standing can charter huge volumes of civilian jets and freight ships to take their forces anywhere. In major powers, these resources are always in great enough quantities to ship the entire army if that's what the country wanted. Case in point, after 1991 the US got rid of the vast majority of its supply ships and a fair share of its transport aircraft. It still managed to deploy at one point six digits worth of soldiers to the Middle East by using the services of third party contractors who largely repurposed civilian assets. Was it efficient? Absolutely not. But the US was able to "power project" despite having only a handful of supply ships at one point nevertheless.

Some people have pointed out China has Y-20s now. It's a great improvement, but doesn't represent any significant shift in the country's logistical capability at all. Any Chinese deployment to say, Africa, would be overwhelmingly managed by contractors, the maritime militia, and other "semi-military" arms. Even today not nearly enough military planes and dedicated transport ships exist to support any huge deployment outside the Second Island Chain.

Finally, while "absolute" power projection doesn't exist, comparative power projection does. What really matters in seaborne and airborne logistics is whether you can *protect* the ships and planes you're sending. An unopposed supply shipment doesn't demonstrate this in the slightest - the Netherlands could pull that off.

### 72: [Documents detail U.S. military’s frustration with White House, diplomats over Afghanistan evacuation](https://old.reddit.com/r/CredibleDefense/comments/sni30r/documents_detail_us_militarys_frustration_with/), submitted on 2022-02-08 19:33:07+08:00.

----- __72.1__ -----2022-02-09 23:18:59+08:00:

There was a big shift in the 90s. I know three senior state department officials from the Cold War era: one was the head of USAID, another was a major country ambassador in Europe, and the last one was heading up the former Yugoslavia working group for most of the war there. All were extremely shrewd and competent people who were deeply involved in the politics of their host countries. u/Veqq mentioned French embassies, unlike American ones, will host social functions for local elites. Well, the USAID head, when he was ambassador to multiple African countries, was doing just that (he always got excellent attendance since his wife was a famous chef). As late as 2000, State was taking the lead on masterstrokes of political interference like the US operation to depose Slobodan Milosevic. The head of the Yugoslavia group and his staff convinced some lobbyists and political strategists in Washington to fly over, snuck them into the country and modernized the ground game of the opposition parties.

Things like this never happen today because of a little known event in 1994: the Aldritch Ames Incident. A long-time, senior intelligence official was discovered to have been spying for Moscow for decades. The CIA subsequently imposed a draconian security clearance policy that excluded anyone who could possibly know anything about the countries it was waging covert operations against from their new recruit classes, and gradually started purging "unreliable" experts and even operatives.

Throughout the 90s and especially after 2001, the CIA also exerted greater influence over the other arms of intelligence and diplomacy. The AA incident drove the White House and Congress to demand the CIA "work with" other bodies like State and the NSA, but it ended up being the CIA "working over" them. There was never an equality of information between the three, with the CIA always knowing the most and influencing tri-agency strategy by selective truth telling. "Cooperation" also gradually imposed the CIA's new security culture on the other two bodies. Security clearance fanaticism clearly hit state years later than the CIA, as evidenced by the fact that State was still somewhat competent in 2000. But, by the creation of the Iraqi "Green Zone", it was clear State had declined into the same "walled castle" mentality of the CIA.

The State Department's problem today is the same as the problem of all US intelligence agencies. It's so obsessed with betrayal that it can't engineer betrayal in the ranks of the enemy. Intelligence and diplomacy are both "contact" sports, and the amount of contact with locals deemed permissible for a state department official today is far lower than even 20 years ago.

