---
author: EnclavedMicrostate
categories:
- Reddit
date: 2022-05-16
from: https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/uqplag/i_have_heard_many_times_how_indians_say_that/
layout: post
tags:
- Reddit
title: EnclavedMicrostate在2022-05-16~2022-05-22的言论
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scrapped).
{:toc}

### 434: [I have heard many times how Indians say that Alexander was defeated when he tried to attack india. What’s the basis of the claim ?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/uqplag/i_have_heard_many_times_how_indians_say_that/), submitted on 2022-05-16 14:40:29+08:00.

----- __434.1__ -----2022-05-16 17:51:15+08:00:

More can of course be said, particularly regarding the march in Gedrosia, but I discuss what the sources say on Alexander's closing of the Indian campaign [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/qzlynj/what_scared_alexanders_soldiers_when_they_reached/hlr5foz/?context=999). Put simply, half of our source tradition on Alexander runs the gamut from cynical to openly hostile, and if Alexander had somehow lost the Battle of the Hydaspes against Poros – or somehow Chandragupta, who was not even king of anything at the time – then we would expect at least *one* of the surviving accounts to have said it.

### 435: [Why do some Chinese claim Korea to be part of China? Was Korea ever a part of China? Were they effectively under Chinese rule when they were a vassal state of China?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/uqvht2/why_do_some_chinese_claim_korea_to_be_part_of/), submitted on 2022-05-16 21:03:56+08:00.

----- __435.1__ -----2022-05-17 19:42:05+08:00:

> Also through long periods of Korean history, Korea was a vassal state of China. This only ended with the farcical proclamation of Korea as an "empire" in 1897. Basically what happened is that Japan twisted Korea's arm into declaring itself an empire as that declaration would make it (officially) the equal to China and thus cut off Korea's traditional vassalage to China. This is all mostly a bad joke as it was just another step on the road towards Japanese annexation of Korea.

I'd be interested to hear where you get this from, as my understanding, coming mainly from Kirk Larsen and Andre Schmid, is that Korea in 1897 was effectively a Russian protectorate following the Triple Intervention, and that its declaration of imperial status was A: voluntary and deliberate on the part of the King Gojong and B: an assertion of status against both Japan and the Qing, and not simply an anti-Qing move.

----- __435.2__ -----2022-05-18 23:40:29+08:00:

With one answer here discussing modern nationalism and the middle imperial period, and another discussing the Yuan, it would be remiss if I did not address the Qing relationship with Korea to round things out a bit. The historiography on this is rather complex and tied up in a number of issues which I ought to get into first.

The traditional view would be to portray Korea as one of many states in the Chinese 'tributary system', in which polities delivered a substantial though not exorbitant amount of goods to the Chinese emperor in exchange for recognition of their sovereignty. While Korea was exceptionally close to the Qing and delivered tribute especially frequently, this could be explained rationally by Korea's proximity – both geographical and cultural – to the Chinese 'centre' relative to more distant 'tributary' polities in places like Southeast Asia. The 'tributary system' model has a number of serious problems – see Peter Perdue's article 'The Tenacious Tributary System' (2015) for a particularly pointed critique – and it has been quietly replaced in academic historiography for many years, though it has unfortunately gained a new and undeserved lease on life thanks to the extremely shoddy scholarship of a number of international relations scholars beginning with David Kang in 2010.

In the actual historical sphere however, there has emerged a particular train of thought on the foreign relations of the late Qing period building off the 'New Qing' turn of the late 1990s that itself followed in the wake of the 'China-centric' turn of the mid-1980s. I've written on the [New Qing turn](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/pa13hj/monday_methods_the_new_qing_turn_and_decentering/) in the past, but for our purposes the most pertinent element of this shift has been a willingness to approach the Qing (and indeed by extension other China-ruling states) not as part of a totally unique civilisational paradigm, but rather as one of many Eurasian states. For the Early Modern period this has meant recognising commonalities in methods of state-building between the Qing and polities in Europe, the Middle East, and South Asia, but some historians have also brought this forward into the nineteenth century as well. In particular, questions have been raised of whether and how the Qing engaged in the 'New Imperialism' of the 19th century, when many of the last uncolonised polities of the Afro-Eurasian continent came under the domination of mostly European powers. Kirk Larsen has been the firmest advocate for the answer being 'yes', and his primary example is especially pertinent as it happens to be Qing relations with Korea beginning in the 1870s.

There has been somewhat of a response to this which I'll term a 'neo-Sinocentrist' view represented primarily by Yuanchong Wang in his 2018 monograph *Remaking the Chinese Empire: Manchu-Korean Relations 1616-1911*, which is concerned primarily with political discourse and diplomatic rites but which covers the whole period of Qing-Korean relations. While umbrage can be taken with some of Wang's assertions and conclusions (to be frank, there are strong currents of Chinese nationalism in the work influencing parts of the argument), at its core there is a very persuasive suggestion that the Qing-Korean relationship was one that involved a particular focus on symbolic legitimacy in which the two states were closely intertwined. I'll discuss everything in more detail when I get to it, but there are nevertheless some problematic arguments: firstly that Korea should be seen as part of the 'Chinese empire' in this period (asserting, rather ironically, that claims to the contrary are influenced by nationalism), and secondly that the Qing did not engage in imperialism in Korea but instead an unsuccessful attempt to rework its existing relationship based on what he terms *zongfan* principles.

Parallel with Wang's work has been a somewhat more methodologically radical approach in the form of Seonmin Kim's *Ginseng and Borderland* (2018), which approaches Qing-Korean relations through the lenses of both frontier and environmental history, considering how the two states' relations were impacted by their desire for and control over natural resources – principally the medicinal root ginseng – along their mutual border in Northeast Asia. Kim's work does not overtly challenge Wang's, but there are some conflicting conclusions deriving from the approaches.

All three specifically mentioned approaches above – Larsen's, Wang's, and Kim's – offer useful lenses through which to view Qing relations with Korea, though as noted I believe Wang's ought to be approached with some caution. For me, each is particularly useful at a different chronological point – Wang for the early establishment of Qing-Korean relations in the sixteenth century, Kim for developments in the eighteenth and early-mid nineteenth, and Larsen for the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries leading up to the annexation of Korea by Japan in 1910 and the fall of the Qing Empire in 1912 (a period I discuss at certain length [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/l8q6jd/korea_changed_their_official_name_to_taehan/glgr874/)).

For Wang, Korea was part of the 'Chinese empire' under the Qing in the sense that it fell within its 'politico-cultural' sphere, while not forming part of its territorial space. The Manchu subjugation of Korea in 1637 – which predated the conquest of China proper that began in 1644 – was significant not purely from the perspective of hard power in depriving the Ming empire of a key ally, but also in a symbolic sense as it established a notion of the Qing as a 'central' and Korea as a 'peripheral' or 'foreign' power, in which the latter's submission to the former legitimised the former's claims to political status. Korea, for its part, increasingly derived its own legitimation through recognition by the Qing as relations became increasingly normalised, at least at the formal, polite level. That said, Qing and Korean perceptions of this relationship differed somewhat: the Qing saw Korea within its broader imperial space but did not meaningfully exercise rule over it, with neither troops nor officials stationed in the kingdom, nor any sort of tax mechanism. Korea, for its part, saw its self-governing status as indicating outright independence, with its being of lesser status but not outright subordinated to the Qing emperor's authority.

Kim's frontier approach complicates Wang's argument, which is concerned almost entirely with discursive relationships negotiated at the states' respective capitals, in that it emphasises the importance of territoriality. The Qing first began fixing their border with Joseon Korea in the 1710s, when it was formally agreed that the boundary between the two states would be fixed at the Yalu and Tumen rivers, albeit with a certain ambiguity over parts of the north bank of the Tumen. The Qing increasingly enforced harder border controls over the region, especially to limit Han Chinese migration outside of the Liaodong region but also, as time wore on, to constrain movement of Korean ginseng harvesters across the border (and indeed of those under Qing rule as well). When the ginseng industry collapsed in the 1840s-50s due to overharvesting, the Qing began actively sponsoring agricultural colonisation by migrants from China proper and introduced a singular consistent set of border controls, firmly demarcating the two territories. This sort of on-the-ground relationship throws a bit of a spanner into the notion that Korea was essentially part of the Qing empire. Discursively, the Korean kingdom may have fallen into the Qing empire's self-assessed sphere of authority, but when it came down to it, subjects of the Korean king were *not* subjects of the Qing emperor, whose own subjects did not have any particular privileges carried over into Korea either.

Larsen effectively brings this forward by showing that Qing suzerainty over Korea ought to be seen as something that was not a fixed relationship. While a set of traditions were maintained for over two centuries from the mid-17th century down to the mid-19th, the Qing empire quite deliberately engaged in an attempt at expanding its power over Korea beginning in the 1870s, when it encouraged what Larsen terms 'multilateral imperialism' to limit Japanese influence by essentially inviting other imperial powers to sign commercial treaties with Korea, but while retaining a certain superiority for its own merchants and officials. This would escalate in 1885 with the appointment of Yuan Shikai as a Qing imperial commissioner in Seoul, an unprecedented assertion of Qing power within Korea itself as opposed to a simple relationship of political subordination. Yuan's appointment, which concluded on the eve of the First Sino-Japanese War in July 1894, marked the high water-mark of Qing power in Korea, but also a short-lived one.

So, was Korea 'part of China' during the Qing? Frankly, only in the most tendentiously-defined of senses. While it was in some regard dominated by the Qing Empire within a geopolitical context, for all practical intents and purposes the Qing Empire and Joseon kingdom were separate states with separate administrations and separate subjects. The Qing did, eventually, escalate their level of influence over Korea, but even at the height of this during the appointment of Yuan Shikai, Korea functioned, at most, as a protectorate of the Qing, and were never at serious threat of formal annexation into the empire.

