---
author: EnclavedMicrostate
categories:
- Reddit
date: 2023-02-16
from: https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/111m35g/why_were_chinese_men_so_obsessed_with_the_idea_of/
layout: post
tags:
- Reddit
title: EnclavedMicrostate在2023-02-13~2023-02-19的言论
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scrapped).
{:toc}

### 1107: [Why were Chinese men so obsessed with the idea of widow chastity?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/111m35g/why_were_chinese_men_so_obsessed_with_the_idea_of/), submitted on 2023-02-14 06:30:17+08:00.

----- __1107.1__ -----2023-02-14 18:16:12+08:00:

Your comment has been removed due to violations of the [subreddit’s rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/wiki/rules). We expect answers to provide [in-depth and comprehensive insight](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/wiki/rules#wiki_write_an_in-depth_answer) into the topic at hand and to [be free of significant errors or misunderstandings](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/f7ffl8/rules_roundtable_ii_the_four_questions_what_does/) while doing so. Before contributing again, please take the time to better familiarize yourself with the [subreddit rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/wiki/rules) and [expectations](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/wiki/faq/meta#wiki_rules_discussion) for an answer.

### 1108: [Are there parallels between England today and the rise of the Nazis?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/1123qkg/are_there_parallels_between_england_today_and_the/), submitted on 2023-02-14 20:02:03+08:00.

----- __1108.1__ -----2023-02-14 20:16:16+08:00:

This submission has been removed because it involves current events.  To keep from discussion of politics, we have a [20-year rule](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/wiki/rules#wiki_no_current_events) here.  You may want to try /r/ask_politics, /r/NeutralPolitics, or another current-events focused sub. For further explanation of this rule, feel free to consult [this Rules Roundtable](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/glj8c4/rules_roundtable_xii_the_twenty_year_rule/).

### 1109: [The Tianjing Incident was a major set back for the Taiping, but what other kind of major set backs did the Taiping Face?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/1135dj8/the_tianjing_incident_was_a_major_set_back_for/), submitted on 2023-02-16 02:48:22+08:00.

----- __1109.1__ -----2023-02-16 06:41:09+08:00:

Were I being glib, I'd call the fact that the Taiping lost their biggest setback by far, but somehow I feel like that's not quite the question you're asking. Now, the definition of what makes a setback 'major' is going to be one that can be quibbled over endlessly, so if you disagree with my choices that is fundamentally a you problem, this is my opinion gosh darn it and you asked for it.

If we're going to talk about setbacks in terms of individual historical moments, then the closest analogue to the so-called 'Tianjing Incident' would probably be the Taiping loss of Anqing in September 1861, following a year-long siege by the Hunan Army. For the early part of the war, the Taiping were able to draw on most of the lower Yangtze basin as their economic base, as well as using it for strategic depth against Qing counteroffensives downriver towards Nanjing. Wuchang, which changed hands several times, was lost permanently to the Taiping by 1856, but there was still around 600km along the Yangtze from there to Nanjing. Anqing, which stood at the halfway mark between these two cities, served two purposes. Firstly, it served as a stronghold protecting the region between it and Nanjing, keeping that region firmly within Taiping control. Secondly, it remained viable as a forward staging ground for operations upriver, including onto Lake Poyang, which was critical for maintaining lines of communication in northern Jiangxi. When Anqing fell, effectively the entire western half of the Heavenly Kingdom collapsed almost overnight. More or less all Taiping territory upriver from Anqing, including Jiangxi, would effectively be back in Qing hands by the end of the year.

The Taiping did make attempts to relieve the siege. For one, harassing attacks against the Hunan Army were attempted, in hopes that sufficient losses would induce them to withdraw. But perhaps the boldest attempt took the form of an attempted attack on Wuchang, which had been left with a minimal garrison thanks to the Hunan Army's investment of Anqing. With one army under Chen Yucheng marching on the northern bank of the Yangtze, and another under Li Xiucheng on the south, they would converge on the under-defended city, cutting the Hunan Army's line of retreat, and then march back downriver to crush it once and for all. However, the armies, which set out in October 1860, faced unexpected challenges. After capturing Huangzhou in March, Chen found that the city of Hankou, on the opposite bank of the Yangtze, was now a treaty port subject to vaguely-defined protections by the British, and so, pressured by British diplomats, he chose not to press the attack until he had received instructions from Nanjing. This bought time for the defenders of the cities, who were reinforced while Chen was forced to remain in place. Li, meanwhile, chose to take a relatively circuitous path through Jiangxi and Hubei in order to gather additional recruits, losing valuable time. When he arrived near Wuchang in May, he found that the Hunanese fleet had firm control over the river, and was unable to get the British consulate to deliver messages to and from Chen (that is to say that they willingly received the letters, and then chose to keep hold of them instead). Having lost the initiative and with no ability to coordinate, Li retreated in June. Chen, for his part, had abandoned the attempt against Wuchang back in April, and attempted to relieve the siege directly, circumvallating the Hunan Army's own siege lines. However, he himself was hemmed in by a Qing cavalry force that lay across his potential line of retreat to Taiping-held Tongcheng. In May, Hong Rengan was tasked with defeating the imperial cavalry and reopening communications between Tongcheng and Chen's forces, but he failed, and Chen would then retreat into northern Anhui, where he would later be betrayed by a local warlord whom he was attempting to ally with.

But as the above chronology suggests, there was another, more persistent setback, less a singular moment and more a perennial problem, and that was the abject failure of Taiping diplomacy. The failure of the Taiping to solicit British, French, or American support in 1853-4 was arguably an integral factor in the former two countries going to war with the Qing in 1856-60 for expanded trade access, which meant that while they were fighting against the Qing in the *short* term, in the *long* term they were staking on a Qing victory against the Taiping. After all, what reason was there to believe that the Taiping would honour treaties that had been signed by the Qing, their mortal enemies? Whether any diplomatic overtures after 1856 could have made a difference is an open question, but in the event, the foreign community in China by and large opposed the Taiping, and in turn influenced their home governments to do the same. As we have seen, British chicanery around the treaty ports doomed the Taiping attempt to relieve Anqing, and even before outright military intervention in 1862-4, Britain and France were giving more than tacit support to the Qing militarily: the Taiping were prevented from taking Shanghai in 1860, and in early 1862 foreign steamers shipped the newly-formed Anhui Army from Anqing to Shanghai to support the city's defence. It is an open question as to how integral foreign support was to the Qing's victory, but you could make a decent case for there being somewhat more certainty going the other way: the Taiping's defeat can be attributed in no small part to the failure of foreign support to materialise.

