---
author: EnclavedMicrostate
categories:
- Reddit
date: 2023-03-17
from: https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/11ptb1u/scientology_has_a_number_of_secret_doctrines/
layout: post
tags:
- Reddit
title: EnclavedMicrostate在2023-03-13~2023-03-19的言论
---

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scrapped).
{:toc}

### 1142: [Scientology has a number of “secret doctrines,” including ones related to the alien king Xenu. What is the significance of these doctrines?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/11ptb1u/scientology_has_a_number_of_secret_doctrines/), submitted on 2023-03-13 07:22:08+08:00.

----- __1142.1__ -----2023-03-13 17:15:52+08:00:

Apologies, but we have had to remove your submission. We ask that questions in this subreddit be limited to those asking about history, or for historical answers. This is not a judgement of your question, but to receive the answer you are looking for, it would be better suited to r/AskScienceFiction.

If you are interested in an historical answer, however, you are welcome to rework your question to fit the theme of this subreddit and resubmit it.

----- __1142.2__ -----2023-03-13 20:34:39+08:00:

Unfortunately I do not know that there's a general religion ask sub, but if there is then that'd be where to go.

----- __1142.3__ -----2023-03-13 20:47:30+08:00:

Because the question is in the present tense and is implicitly about the present state of the religion. If you'd like to ask about the historical significance of Scientological doctrine, please do so in a way that clearly highlights this.

### 1143: [(China) How exactly did Taiping Rebellion military decentralization lead to the Warlord Era?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/11rp5hq/china_how_exactly_did_taiping_rebellion_military/), submitted on 2023-03-15 15:22:39+08:00.

----- __1143.1__ -----2023-03-16 01:12:44+08:00:

In some ways, this question is ultimately one not of historical causality, but of historiography: *why* have historians made the arguments they have? Because the answer is not immediately straightforward. I would posit that it all stems from citing an assumption as fact.

In 1970, Philip A Kuhn's *Rebellion and its Enemies in Late Imperial China: Militarization and Social Structure, 1796-1864* was published, which advanced a bold thesis: the transition from 'traditional' to 'modern' processes in Chinese state and society, and the resultant breakdown of the imperial order, took place not as a result of violent contact with the West after 1839 as commonly asserted, but rather as a result of internal processes that began snowballing from the 1790s onward. Qing mishandling of the White Lotus Rebellion in 1796-1806 led to the formation of local militias, which increasingly consolidated into regional networks. These were further emboldened by Qing failures in the Opium War of 1839-42, and came to be officially co-opted into the Qing war effort on a mass scale during the Taiping War in 1851-64 with the establishment of *Yongying* forces under the command of such men as Zeng Guofan. This, however, was the only part that Kuhn analysed in depth, as suggested by the title of his book. While he *suggested* that the continued decentralisation of Qing military power would lead, eventually, to the warlord period, his actual research focussed squarely on the Jiaqing (1796-1820) and Daoguang (1820-1850) reigns of the Qing, and didn't actually go beyond 1864. But Kuhn's extrapolation then became taken as historically sound by a generation of scholars who simply failed to question whether the proposed trajectory was actually, well, true. 

And one can detect a variety of responses to this in later literature, albeit often implicit. For instance, Edmund S.K. Fung, in *The Military Dimension of the Chinese Revolution* (1980), explicitly argues that the New Army that precipitated the 1911 Revolution emerged out of military overhauls after 1895 which supplanted the old Taiping-era militia forces, many of which had been downsized or disbanded following the end of the Taiping conflict. Edward J.M. Rhoads, in *Manchus and Han: Ethnic Relations and Political Power in Late Qing and Early Republican China, 1862-1928* (2000), does not tackle warlordism as such, but does point out the rather heterogeneous nature of Qing military reforms, which attempted in the post-1895 period to establish multiethnic imperial corps, pivoting to a much more Han-dominated New Army under the New Policies enacted after 1901. What we end up, with, then, is at least one point of disjuncture – 1895 – separating the divested Taiping-era militias from the more centralised structures that the Qing attempted to impose after the defeat to Japan.

But in neither instance is there an assertion that the warlord armies were direct descendants of the New Army either. Edmund Fung notes that the primary influence of the New Army was in altering the relationship between civil bureaucracy and military leadership, allowing the latter to presume, and therefore assume, greater importance than they had done in the pre-1901 era. But the troops constituting the warlord armies were extremely varied. Some forces, particularly the Anhui and Zhili Cliques, drew heavily, even predominantly, on New Army veterans, whereas other forces were entirely composed of new recruits post-Revolution.

The picture becomes further complicated, however, when we consider that these armies never supplanted each other outright – though not for lack of trying. During the Taiping War, the *Yongying* reorganised militias rubbed shoulders with local militias, Green Standard forces, and Banner soldiers, all of whom continued to exist afterward. The Wuwei Corps established after 1895 was a limited force based at Beijing, and both imperial and regional forces on older models continued to exist. The New Army reforms attempted to do away with these forces and create bifurcated armies consisting of New Army troops as the 'tip of the spear' and 'Patrol and Defence Forces' as a peacetime gendarmerie and wartime reserve, but this was still incomplete by the beginning of 1911. Hubei would not disband the last of its Green Standard forces, which constituted about a fifth of its 40,000 military personnel at the start of the year, until the end of June; many of Hunan's Green Standards, who made up nearly half of its 35,500 troops, were still in service at the time of the revolution on 10 October. Moreover, the Banner units remained largely separate, though the Qing did establish two Manchu-only units: the Imperial Guard and the 1st Division.

So even if you did want to draw a clean genealogy, you don't really get one: the Taiping-era *Yongying* didn't uniformly transform into the New Army, which did not uniformly transition into the warlord armies. Moreover, as suggested earlier, these were not armies of comparable nature. It is easy to overlook that the *Yongying* armies were commanded by civilian officials given temporary extraordinary powers to maintain and command military forces, not by professional career officers as the New Army was. It is true that the heterogeneous army of 1911 ultimately broke apart in no small part thanks to the ability of charismatic individuals to consolidate control over their own portions, but they were originally, at their core, regional armies, maintained at provincial discretion and at provincial expense, along central directives. The rise of charismatic warlords was a bug rather than a feature. By contrast, the *Yongying* forces were fundamentally built around their charismatic leaders, and their regional character was somewhat more coincidental. Li Hongzhang's Huai Army, named for Anhui, spent most of its existence headquartered in Zhili because its commander had gone there; Zeng Guofan's Xiang Army, named for Hunan, ultimately recruited beyond its ostensible core province, even if it never outright shook its provincial reputation. The resemblances between the *Yongying* and the New Army, then, were largely superficial, and as has been said, the warlord armies were not simple successors of a fragmenting New Army.

With that I think it is safe to say that Taiping-era military decentralisation really *didn't* lead to the Warlord Era. We can draw a chronological and causative chain, of course, but it is not one of a linear trajectory. The New Army *replaced* (well, mostly replaced) the Taiping-era militias in response to their failures, and had substantial organisational differences. The warlords did not receive the New Army wholesale, but drew on what troops they could, where they could. Two substantial points of rupture separate the Taiping from the warlords, both representing significant changes in direction.

----- __1143.2__ -----2023-03-17 07:43:34+08:00:

So, to give a brief and general chronology of Qing military organisation:

Before 1644, all (or effectively all) of the armed forces of the Qing were organised through the Eight Banners, which started out as a multiethnic entity comprising Manchus, Mongols, Han Chinese, and various other, smaller groups in Manchuria. After crossing the Great Wall in 1644, however, the Qing chose not to expand the Eight Banners, but instead incorporated defecting Ming troops and new recruits into a new force, the Green Standard Army. The Green Standards were a distinctly second-line force in their conception: at some point post-conquest they were barred from using firearms, until the ban was lifted in the Yongzheng reign (1722-35); they were also mainly tasked with rural policing and personnel support for the civil service, and were largely parcelled out into very small garrisons. Any larger formation of Green Standards had to be established on an ad hoc basis, and rarely could more than a very small portion of them be mobilised out of their home regions. This was, incidentally, by design: the Green Standards were considered politically unreliable, to say the least, as the Qing state as a whole was deeply suspect about the motivations and loyalty of its Han subject population.

The Qing also maintained a local militia system as part of the *baojia*, a centrally-organised system which regulated both local defence and tax collection. *Baojia*-organised militias would then often be co-opted into Qing field armies as *yong* ('braves') for additional manpower. However, the *baojia*'s militia component proved to be insufficiently flexible for rural defence when the White Lotus Rebellion tore through north-central China in the 1790s, and amid a general decentring of central power in the Jiaqing reign, there came to be a proliferation of locally-organised *tuanlian* militia groups across China proper, which increasingly formed local networks of mutually-supporting village militias. Several such networks would be activated at various points in the Opium War of 1839-42, when the formation of *tuanlian* to provide *yong* auxiliaries was actively encouraged by the Daoguang Emperor in response to exaggerated claims of their efficacy against the British.

In turn, *tuanlian* would be drawn upon during the Taiping War, initially by Zeng Guofan and Hu Linyi, at the behest of the imperial government, in order to establish more permanent units known as *yongying* ('brave camps') that would remain in the field until the Taiping were dealt with. At the war's conclusion in 1864, Zeng Guofan disbanded his army (Hu Linyi's army appears to have dissolved and been partially reincorporated into Zeng's after his own death in 1861); however a number of other, smaller *yongying* forces existed across China, in areas with and without fighting. Cen Yuying led *yongying* forces against rebels in Yunnan until their defeat in 1873, and the residual Yunnanese *yongying* would then go on to fight the French in Vietnam in 1884-5; a splinter branch of the Hunan Army under Zuo Zongtang fought in northwest China and latterly Xinjiang between 1865 and 1878. On the other hand, Li Hongzhang retained his Huai Army in northern China after 1864, but its only significant action after the Taiping conflict was in 1894-5, when they formed the core of the Qing army that fought (and lost to) the Japanese in Korea.

We then have a weird interlude in 1895-1900 with the establishment of the modernised Wuwei Corps, a heterogeneous force of five unequally-sized divisions, three of which were made up of Han, one of Hui (Sinophone Muslims), and one of Manchus. This force only existed in Beijing and doesn't seem to have intentionally presaged any sort of later organisation, but it had a strong degree of *yongying* roots: all three commanders of the Han divisions (Nie Shicheng, Song Qing, and Yuan Shikai) had been officers of the now-defunct Huai Army, and indeed Song Qing had originally assembled his own unit during the Taiping War which was then absorbed into Li Hongzhang's army.

What happened with the New Army reforms was an attempt to rationalise the increasingly complicated state of Qing military organisation by creating three clearly-delineated branches: the Banners would remain as before, while Green Standard and *yongying* units would be broken up and reorganised into the New Army and the Patrol and Defence Forces. To do this, there was to be a systematic personnel review in each province to divide the troops into three tiers: the best men would fill the quota for the New Army, the next best would go to the Patrol and Defence Forces, and the worst men, now in excess of the quotas, would be discharged altogether. As the answer noted, this process was still very much ongoing in most provinces in 1911, and so most of the New Army and Patrol and Defence Forces had only recently transitioned out of Green Standard and *yongying* formations. And even then, again as noted, those transitions were still incomplete at the time of the revolution.

### 1144: [The Fastest possible Japanese Restoration!](https://old.reddit.com/r/victoria3/comments/11s2e3d/the_fastest_possible_japanese_restoration/), submitted on 2023-03-16 01:02:39+08:00.

----- __1144.1__ -----2023-03-16 19:07:15+08:00:

> At the time Japan was under a policy called Sakoku, literally translates to locked country.

Nope. *Sakoku* was a term retroactively applied by opponents of the Shogunate to decry its apparent short-sightedness. Japan certainly did a lot to economically insulate itself, but it was not without interest in world affairs; hyper-protectionism rather than outright isolationism might be the best way of describing it.

### 1145: [What do you historians think of the tartaria mud flood theory?](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/11tcyqt/what_do_you_historians_think_of_the_tartaria_mud/), submitted on 2023-03-17 09:18:23+08:00.

----- __1145.1__ -----2023-03-17 13:08:12+08:00:

So, the answers to your questions are not wholly straightforward; I would recommend the linked podcast episode and the text post as starting points. 

To give a bit of a summary here: As noted in the linked posts, the modern Tartaria conspiracy is a composite of two discursive framed: a textual one based on historical manuscript and print media such as books and maps, which attempts to pinpoint a historical Tartaria in space and time; and a material one based on buildings, which assert a Tartarian origin to various architectural styles. The text-based framing originates with the New Chronology of Russian nationalist pseudohistorian Anatoly Fomenko, while the building-based framing originates with the 'Cultural Layer' mudflood conspiracy theory. In a sense, then, the origins of both are relatively old: Fomenko was mainly active in Russia in the early 1990s, culminating in the book *Novaia Khronologia* in 1995 but his theories were made available to the English-speaking world after the publication of the four-volume *History: Fiction or Science?* in 2002. Mudfloods/Cultural Layer originally cohered around the forum stolenhistory.org, which appears to have come online by May 2017; the subreddit r CulturalLayer would be set up in September.

These two would combine into the Tartaria conspiracy we all know and love today by late 2018. There's evidence from early in the year of Russian-speaking members of the CulturalLayer subreddit encountering Fomenko's Tartaria theory on the Russian web, and in April the founder of StolenHistory, KorbenDallas, posted a thread discussing the Tartaria theory on the forum. This would culminate in the r Tartaria subreddit being founded in December as the primary repository of Tartaria-related posts, at least for the immediate future. Where it has gone since then is somewhat beyond me at this point, as I genuinely haven't kept a close eye on things in years.

To be honest, while it's funny, it is also very, very niche, and I can understand how one could miss it quite easily. While there are ostensibly 25,000 subscribers to the Tartaria subreddit, Reddit subscribers are pretty meaningless anyway, and the subreddit is increasingly moribund anyway. There are a few people around who have come across it – and I know some in real life – but it's not that high up on the internet pseudohistory iceberg, at least not yet.

